{\rtf1\ansi\uc1\deff0\deflang1024
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}
{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}
{\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Zapf Chancery;}
{\f5\fnil\fcharset0 STIXGeneral;}
{\f6\fnil\fcharset0 MS Gothic;}
}
{\colortbl;
\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;
}
{\stylesheet
{\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24 \snext0 Normal;}
{\cs10 \additive\ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}
{\s1\qc\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 Part;}
{\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}
{\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}
{\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}
{\s5\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 4;}
{\s6\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}
{\s7\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}
{\s8\qr\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext8 rightpar;}
{\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext9 centerpar;}
{\s10\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext10 leftpar;}
{\s11\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equation;}
{\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationNum;}
{\s13\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationAlign;}
{\s14\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationAlignNum;}
{\s15\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationArray;}
{\s16\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationArrayNum;}
{\s17\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 theorem;}
{\s18\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 bitmapCenter;}
{\s20\qc\sb240\sa240\b\f0\fs36 \sbasedon0\snext21 Title;}
{\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 author;}
{\s22\ql\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext22 footer;}
{\s23\ql\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext23 header;}
{\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 caption;}
{\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 Figure;}
{\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext32 Table;}
{\s33\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext33 Tabular;}
{\s34\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext34 Tabbing;}
{\s35\qj\li1024\ri1024\fi340\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext35 Quote;}
{\s38\ql\widctlpar\f3\fs24 \snext38 verbatim;}
{\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext46 List;}
{\s47\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext47 List 1;}
{\s50\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 latex picture;}
{\s51\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 subfigure;}
{\s61\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext62 bibheading;}
{\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext62 bibitem;}
{\s64\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext64 endnotes;}
{\s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext65 footnote text;}
{\s66\qj\fi-170\li454\lin454\f0\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext66 endnote text;}
{\cs62\super \additive\sbasedon10 footnote reference;}
{\cs63\super \additive\sbasedon10 endnote reference;}
{\s67\ql\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext67 acronym;}
{\s70\qc\sa120\b\f0\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext71 abstract title;}
{\s71\qj\li1024\ri1024\fi340\widctlpar\f0\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 abstract;}
{\s80\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 contents_heading;}
{\s81\ql\li425\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb240\sa60\keepn\f0\fs24\b \sbasedon0\snext82 toc 1;}
{\s82\ql\li512\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext83 toc 2;}
{\s83\ql\li1024\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext84 toc 3;}
{\s84\ql\li1536\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext85 toc 4;}
{\s85\ql\li2048\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext86 toc 5;}
{\s86\ql\li2560\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext86 toc 6;}
}
{\info
{\title Original file was light.tex}
{\doccomm Created using latex2rtf 2.3.18 r1267 (released May 30, 2020) on Sat Nov 20 00:17:32 2021
}
}
{\footer\pard\plain\f0\fs24\qc\chpgn\par}
\paperw11960\paperh16900\margl1445\margr1445\margt1445\margb1445\pgnstart0\widowctrl\qj\ftnbj\f0\aftnnar
{\pard\plain\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs24\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \fs20 \chdate \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 1  Design\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb180 \fi0 1.1  Introduction\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 I watched a video online discussing the historical usage of electrical light sources to illuminate the streets, where it focused on a \ldblquote Moonlight tower\rdblquote  in San Jose, California that lights up an entire city through a single light source {tower}. The video considered it to be a joke of an invention for the very little light it gave out for pedestrians, as comparable to the actual moon \emdash  hence the name \ldblquote Moonlight\rdblquote . While it is common sense that the further you are from a light source, the less bright it seems. I was fascinated by how quickly the brightness had decreased, so much so that a sun-like light-bulb can be so dim only 100 meters away. I want to test how the light intensity changes with the distance to the light source.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl240\slmult1 \fi360 Additionally, the relationship between light intensity and distance to the light source can reveal the efficiency of the light source: known as the typical luminous efficacy and measured in \ldblquote amount\rdblquote  of light waves per unit power, or lumens per watt. I decided to select one of the light-bulbs from the school\rquote s physics department and test its efficiency, because the class have been exclusively using them in learning the topic of electricity. I am curious in finding out how the efficiency of this light-bulb compares to a list of common light sources.\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 1.2  Research Question\par
{\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \li512\ri512\fi0 What is the relationship between the measured illuminance against the distance to an incandescent light-bulb? \par
}\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb180 \fi0 1.3  Background\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 For a light-bulb to produce light, an electrical current in the form of moving electrical charges must pass through a light emitting electrical resistor. This experiment will use an incandescent light-bulb as the light source, which functions by heating a wire filament to a temperature that emits light. For light waves are forms of energy, the amount of light produced is depended on the energy per second dissipated within the filament, known as power and represented with symbol {}. Power is defined as the voltage {} across the resistor times the current {} through the resistor, shown in figure {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMeq_work \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1.1}}}. The higher the power dissipated within the light-bulb, the brighter the light-bulb is.\par
{\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl240\slmult1 \sb300 \fi0 \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {Figure {\*\bkmkstart BMeq_work}1{\*\bkmkend BMeq_work}: The electrical relationship of power}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "1 The electrical relationship of power" \\f f}{\fldrslt }}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi360 The energy dissipated in the filament within the light-bulb are converted into thermal energy and electromagnetic waves. These waves are energy disturbances in the air medium traveling in all directions originated from the filament, and the rate of these light waves incidence per unit area on a surface is the intensity of the light source at the location, represented with symbol {} and in units watts per meter squared ({}). The light intensity changes over changing distances to the light source following the inverse square law {isl}:\par
{\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl240\slmult1 \sb300 \fi0 \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {Figure {\*\bkmkstart BMeq_isl}2{\*\bkmkend BMeq_isl}: The inverse square law}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "2 The inverse square law" \\f f}{\fldrslt }}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi360 where {} is the light intensity, {} is the distance to the light source, and {} is the power dissipated within the light source. The inverse square law states that light intensity is inversely proportional to the square of the distance from the source, and is proportional to the source power.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl240\slmult1 \fi360 However, the light sensor I used instead measures light intensity in illuminance with unit lux. This is because the human eye does not perceive each wavelength of the electromagnetic spectrum equally \emdash  red light appears dimmer than green light at the same intensity, and the unit illuminance takes this into consideration by weighting each wavelength differently. Illuminance is defined through the following equation, where {} is the distance to the source, {} as the weighting function of a wavelength, and {} as the power of the light source.\par
{\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl240\slmult1 \sb300 \fi0 \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {Figure {\*\bkmkstart BMeq_dti}3{\*\bkmkend BMeq_dti}: The Illuminance equation}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "3 The Illuminance equation" \\f f}{\fldrslt }}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi360 By rearranging the illuminance equation in figure {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMeq_dti \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1.3}}}, it can be shown that illuminance also obeys the inverse square law. This means that illuminance is simply another measurement of light intensity:\par
{\pard\plain\s18\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\tqr\tx6900\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl240\slmult1 \fi360 By plotting the illuminance measurements against the distance, an inverse square graph to the likes of figure {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMfig_relation \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1.4}}} is to be expected, with illuminance decreasing at a decreasing rate as distance to source is increased.\par
{\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl240\slmult1 \sb300 \fi0 \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {Figure {\*\bkmkstart BMfig_relation}4{\*\bkmkend BMfig_relation}: Graph of Illuminance against Distance}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "4 Graph of Illuminance against Distance" \\f f}{\fldrslt }}\par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi360 The efficiency of the incandescent light-bulb can then be calculated using the proportionality constant {} of the illuminance vs. {} relationship:\par
\pard\plain\s11\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\tqc\tx3450\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \tab
\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs24\sl240\slmult1 \fi360 The typical luminous efficacy {} of a light source is a measurement of the amount of light waves produced per watt, in unit {}. As the proportionality constant {} have unit {